Troubleshoot a TiFlash Cluster: Add four more problems and their solu… (#7793)
pingcap/docs: tiflash/troubleshoot-tiflash.md

1. Refer to [Take a TiFlash node down](/scale-tidb-using-tiup.md#scale-in-a-tiflash-cluster) to take the corresponding TiFlash node down.
2. Delete the related data of the TiFlash node.
3. Redeploy the TiFlash node in the cluster.

## TiFlash analysis is slow

> If a statement contains operators or functions not supported in MPP mode, TiDB does not select MPP mode. This is because the analysis of the statement is slow. In this case, you can execute the `EXPLAIN` statement to check for operators or functions not supported in MPP mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a statement contains operators or functions not supported in the MPP mode, TiDB does not select the MPP mode. Therefore, the analysis of the statement is slow. In this case, you can execute the `EXPLAIN` statement to check for operators or functions not supported in the MPP mode.
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
create table t(a datetime);
alter table t set tiflash replica 1;
insert into t values('2022-01-13');
set @@session.tidb_enforce_mpp=1;
explain select count(*) from t where subtime(a, '12:00:00') > '2022-01-01' group by a;
show warnings;
```

> In this example, the warning message shows that TiDB does not select MPP mode because TiDB 5.4 and earlier versions do not support the `subtime` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the warning message shows that TiDB does not select the MPP mode because TiDB 5.4 and earlier versions do not support the `subtime` function.
```

```
+---------+------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
> | Level   | Code | Message                                                                     |
+---------+------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Warning | 1105 | Scalar function 'subtime'(signature: SubDatetimeAndString, return type: datetime) is not supported to push down to tiflash now.       |
+---------+------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

## Data is not replicated to TiFlash

> After deploying a TiFlash node and starting replication (by performing the ALTER operation), no data is replicated to it. You can identify and address the problem by following the steps below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After deploying a TiFlash node and starting replication (by performing the ALTER operation), no data is replicated to it. In this case, you can identify and address the problem by following the steps below:
```

1. Check whether the replication is successful by running the `ALTER table <tbl_name> set tiflash replica <num>` command and check the output.

    - If there is output, go to the next step.

>     - If there is no output, run the `SELECT * FROM information_schema.tiflash_replica` command to check whether TiFlash replicas have been created. If not, run the `ALTER table ${tbl_name} set tiflash replica ${num}` command again, check whether other statements have been executed, or check whether DDL executions are successful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If there is no output, run the `SELECT * FROM information_schema.tiflash_replica` command to check whether TiFlash replicas have been created. If not, run the `ALTER table ${tbl_name} set tiflash replica ${num}` command again, check whether other statements (for example, `add index`) have been executed, or check whether DDL executions are successful.
```

2. Check whether the TiFlash process runs correctly.

>    Check whether there is any change in `progress`, the `flash_region_count` parameter in the `tiflash_cluster_manager.log` file, and `Uptime`:

Reviewer: Is `Uptime` a parameter in `tiflash_cluster_manager.log`?

Author: > Is `Uptime` a parameter in `tiflash_cluster_manager.log`?

No. It's a monitoring item on Grafana. Maybe the sentence can be changed to "Check whether there is any change in `progress`, the `flash_region_count` parameter in the `tiflash_cluster_manager.log` file, and the Grafana monitoring item `Uptime`.

>    Check whether there is any change in `progress`, the `flash_region_count` parameter in the `tiflash_cluster_manager.log` file, and `Uptime`:

Author: ```suggestion
   Check whether there is any change in `progress`, the `flash_region_count` parameter in the `tiflash_cluster_manager.log` file, and the Grafana monitoring item `Uptime`:
```

4. Check whether the `max-replicas` configuration is correct:

    - If the value of `max-replicas` does not exceed the number of TiKV nodes in the cluster, go to the next step.
    - If the value of `max-replicas` is greater than the number of TiKV nodes in the cluster, the PD does not replicate data to the TiFlash node. To address this issue, change `max-replicas` to an integer fewer than or equal to the number of TiKV nodes in the cluster.

    > **Note:**
    >
    > `max-replicas` is defaulted to 3. In production environments, the value is usually fewer than the number of TiKV nodes. In test environments, the value can be 1.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
        curl -X POST -d '{
            "group_id": "pd",
            "id": "default",
            "start_key": "",
            "end_key": "",
            "role": "voter",
            "count": 3,
            "location_labels": [
            "host"
            ]
        }' <http://172.16.x.xxx:2379/pd/api/v1/config/rule>
    ```

5. Check whether the connection between TiDB or PD and TiFlash is normal.

>     Check the `flash_cluster_manager.log` file for the `ERROR` keyword.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Search the `flash_cluster_manager.log` file for the `ERROR` keyword.
```

    - If no `ERROR` is found, the connection is normal. Go to the next step.
    - If `ERROR` is found, the connection is abnormal. Perform the following check.

      - Check whether the log records PD keywords.

          If PD keywords are found, check whether `raft.pd_addr` in the TiFlash configuration file is valid. Specifically, run the `curl '{pd-addr}/pd/api/v1/config/rules'` command and check whether there is any output in 5s.

      - Check whether the log records TiDB-related keywords.

          If TiDB keywords are found, check whether `flash.tidb_status_addr` in the TiFlash configuration file is valid. Specifically, run the `curl '{tidb-status-addr}/tiflash/replica'` command and check whether there is any output in 5s.

      - Check whether the nodes can ping through each other.

    > **Note:**
    >
    >  If the problem persists, collect logs of the corresponding component for troubleshooting.

6. Check whether `placement-rule` is created for tables.

>     Check the `flash_cluster_manager.log` file for the `Set placement rule … table-<table_id>-r` keyword.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Search the `flash_cluster_manager.log` file for the `Set placement rule … table-<table_id>-r` keyword.
```

>     - If yes, go to the next step.
>     - If no, collect logs of the corresponding component for troubleshooting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If the keyword is found, go to the next step.
    - If not, collect logs of the corresponding component for troubleshooting.
```

7. Check whether the PD schedules properly.

>     Check the `pd.log` file for the `table-<table_id>-r` keyword and scheduling behaviors like `add operator`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Search the `pd.log` file for the `table-<table_id>-r` keyword and scheduling behaviors like `add operator`.
```

>     - If yes, the PD schedules properly.
>     - If no, the PD does not schedule properly. Contact PingCAP technical support for help.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If the keyword is found, the PD schedules properly.
    - If not, the PD does not schedule properly. Contact PingCAP technical support for help.
```

> **Note:**
>

> > When there is a multitude of Regions in the table to be replicated, and the `region merge` parameter is enabled or set to a large value, the replication may stay unchanged or change a little in a period of time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> When there are many small Regions in the table to be replicated, and the `region merge` parameter is enabled or set to a large value, the replication progress might stay unchanged or be reduced in a period of time.
```

## Data replication gets stuck

If data replication on TiFlash starts normally but then all or some data fails to be replicated after a period of time, you can confirm or resolve the issue by performing the following steps:

1. Check the disk space.

    Check whether the disk space ratio is higher than the value of `low-space-ratio` (defaulted to 0.8. When the space usage of a node exceeds 80%, the PD stops migrating data to this node to avoid exhaustion of disk space).

    - If the disk usage ratio is greater than or equal to the value of `low-space-ratio`, the disk space is insufficient. To relieve the disk space, remove unnecessary files, such as `space_placeholder_file` (if necessary, set `reserve-space` to 0MB after removing the file) under the `${data}/flash/` folder.
    - If the disk usage ratio is less than the value of `low-space-ratio`, the disk space is sufficient. Go to the next step.

2. Check the network connectivity between TiKV, TiFlash, and PD.

>     In `flash_cluster_manager.log`, check for updates on `flash_region_count` corresponding to the table that gets stuck.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In `flash_cluster_manager.log`, check whether there are any new updates to `flash_region_count` corresponding to the table that gets stuck.
```

    - If no, go to the next step.

>     - If yes, check for `down peer` (replication gets stuck if there is a peer that is down).
> 
>         - Run `pd-ctl region check-down-peer` to check for `down peer`.

Author: ```suggestion
    - If yes, search for `down peer` (replication gets stuck if there is a peer that is down).

        - Run `pd-ctl region check-down-peer` to search for `down peer`.
```

1. Adjust the value of the scheduling parameters.

    - Increase [`store limit`](/configure-store-limit.md#usage) to accelerate replication.
    - Decrease [`config set patrol-region-interval 10ms`](/pd-control.md#command) to make checker scan on Regions more frequent in TiKV.
    - Increase [`region merge`](/pd-control.md#command) to reduce the number of Regions, which means fewer scans and higher check frequencies.

2. Adjust the load on TiFlsh.

    Excessively high load on TiFlash can also result in slow replication. You can check the load of TiFlash indicators on the **TiFlash-Summary** panel on Grafana:

    - `Applying snapshots Count`: `TiFlash-summary` > `raft` > `Applying snapshots Count`
    - `Snapshot Predecode Duration`: `TiFlash-summary` > `raft` > `Snapshot Predecode Duration`
    - `Snapshot Flush Duration`: `TiFlash-summary` > `raft` > `Snapshot Flush Duration`
    - `Write Stall Duration`: `TiFlash-summary` > `Storage Write Stall` > `Write Stall Duration`
    - `generate snapshot CPU`: `TiFlash-Proxy-Details` > `Thread CPU` > `Region task worker pre-handle/generate snapshot CPU`

>     Based on service priorities, adjust the load accordingly to achieve optimal performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Based on your service priorities, adjust the load accordingly to achieve optimal performance.
```
